README.md, before:

###### *<div align="right"><sub>// design by [Mahaveer](https://github.com/mahaveergurjar)</sub></div>*
# Desktop ChatBot Application

## Overview

This chat application allows users to send messages and receive responses from a language model API. It supports code formatting, explanations, and link formatting. The application uses `GoogleGenerativeAI` for API requests and displays chat messages in a styled interface.

## Features

- **User and Bot Messaging:** Sends user input to an API and displays the bot's response.
- **Code Formatting:** Formats code blocks with syntax highlighting.
- **Explanation Formatting:** Provides clear and structured explanations.
- **Link Formatting:** Automatically converts URLs into clickable links.
- **Auto Focus:** Autofocus on input so fast to type.
- **Copy:** Code copy option.
- **Position:** App screen position changing option.
- **Styled Interface:** Displays chat messages visually appealingly.
- **Dark & Light Theme:** The application uses a dark theme for better readability in low-light environments and a light one provides better visibility in bright environments and creates a clean, minimalistic look that reduces eye strain in well-lit conditions. 

## Installation

To set up and run the chat application locally, follow these steps:

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** and **npm** (or **yarn**) installed on your machine.

### Steps

1. **Clone the Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/mahaveergurjar/Chatbot.git
   cd Chatboot

   ```

2. **Install Dependencies**

   `npm install`

3. **Create API Key**

   To generate an API key for Gemini AI, follow these steps:

   1. Visit the [Gemini AI API Key Generation page](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey?).
   2. Sign in with your Google account if prompted.
   3. Generate a new API key.
   4. Copy the generated API key.

4. **Add Your API Key**
4. **Set Up `.env` File**

   - Rename the `.env.example` file to `.env`:

     ```bash
     mv .env.example .env
     ```

   - Open the `.env` file and add your API key:

     ```env
     API_KEY=Your_Generated_API_Key
     ```

5. **Run the Application**

   `npm start`


###### *<div align="right"><sub>//credited to [Tarush Gupta](https://github.com/TarushGupta23)</sub></div>*
### Position Customization

You can adjust the app screen size and position in `config.js`:

- **X Axis:** Set to `left`, `right`, or `center`.
- **Y Axis:** Set to `top`, `bottom`, or `center`.
- **Gap:** Adjust the screen gap as needed.



<!-- ![Full Screen ChatBot](./screenshot/image1.png) -->


### Screenshot

![Compact View ChatBot](./screenshot/image2.png)

###### *<div align="right"><sub>//credited to [Alok](https://github.com/Pseudophoenix)</sub></div>*
### UI After Theme Button Added
![Light Theme UI Screenshot](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/890d6fce-3406-4a41-9d14-955717b4c2a0)
![Dark Theme UI Screenshot](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0bd44c18-ba41-45a6-b790-5ed1007fdc83)

**Description**:The Button on the top right corner has an `evenListener` attached on click and switches between dark and light by changing the path of the image that is the `src` attribut of `img` tag.

Commit message:

Add Steps to run Docker image in README.md file

README.md, after:

###### *<div align="right"><sub>// design by [Mahaveer](https://github.com/mahaveergurjar)</sub></div>*
# Desktop ChatBot Application

## Overview

This chat application allows users to send messages and receive responses from a language model API. It supports code formatting, explanations, and link formatting. The application uses `GoogleGenerativeAI` for API requests and displays chat messages in a styled interface.

## Features

- **User and Bot Messaging:** Sends user input to an API and displays the bot's response.
- **Code Formatting:** Formats code blocks with syntax highlighting.
- **Explanation Formatting:** Provides clear and structured explanations.
- **Link Formatting:** Automatically converts URLs into clickable links.
- **Auto Focus:** Autofocus on input so fast to type.
- **Copy:** Code copy option.
- **Position:** App screen position changing option.
- **Styled Interface:** Displays chat messages visually appealingly.
- **Dark & Light Theme:** The application uses a dark theme for better readability in low-light environments and a light one provides better visibility in bright environments and creates a clean, minimalistic look that reduces eye strain in well-lit conditions. 

## Installation

To set up and run the chat application locally, follow these steps:

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** and **npm** (or **yarn**) installed on your machine.

### Steps

1. **Clone the Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/mahaveergurjar/Chatbot.git
   cd Chatboot

   ```

2. **Install Dependencies**

   `npm install`

3. **Create API Key**

   To generate an API key for Gemini AI, follow these steps:

   1. Visit the [Gemini AI API Key Generation page](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey?).
   2. Sign in with your Google account if prompted.
   3. Generate a new API key.
   4. Copy the generated API key.

4. **Add Your API Key**
4. **Set Up `.env` File**

   - Rename the `.env.example` file to `.env`:

     ```bash
     mv .env.example .env
     ```

   - Open the `.env` file and add your API key:

     ```env
     API_KEY=Your_Generated_API_Key
     ```

5. **Run the Application**

   `npm start`



## Docker Instructions
To run the chat application using Docker, follow these steps:
### Prerequisites
Ensure you have Docker installed on your machine.
### Steps
1. **Build the Docker Image**
Navigate to your project directory and build the Docker image:

```bash
docker build -t chatbot .
```

2. **Run the Docker Container**
Execute the following command to run your application in a Docker container:

```bash
docker run -it --rm -e DISPLAY=unix$DISPLAY -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix chatbot
```

###### *<div align="right"><sub>//credited to [Tarush Gupta](https://github.com/TarushGupta23)</sub></div>*
### Position Customization

You can adjust the app screen size and position in `config.js`:

- **X Axis:** Set to `left`, `right`, or `center`.
- **Y Axis:** Set to `top`, `bottom`, or `center`.
- **Gap:** Adjust the screen gap as needed.



<!-- ![Full Screen ChatBot](./screenshot/image1.png) -->


### Screenshot

![Compact View ChatBot](./screenshot/image2.png)

###### *<div align="right"><sub>//credited to [Alok](https://github.com/Pseudophoenix)</sub></div>*
### UI After Theme Button Added
![Light Theme UI Screenshot](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/890d6fce-3406-4a41-9d14-955717b4c2a0)
![Dark Theme UI Screenshot](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0bd44c18-ba41-45a6-b790-5ed1007fdc83)

**Description**:The Button on the top right corner has an `evenListener` attached on click and switches between dark and light by changing the path of the image that is the `src` attribut of `img` tag.
